The first impression is that this feels cold, void of a human touch and that we're treating my lost one as if I was filling out a form to order a pizza or something. It feels clinical and cold. We have to handle this with more kindness. - The opening should be a sort of onboarding session and it should be treated as if the user is either speaking with a friend, a distant family member, a psychologist- anyone who can lend an ear and is there to make the user feel better about the situation. The user could have just lost someone recently, or they could have lost them several years ago- but still never got that closure. - So filling out these forms like I said, I feel like I'm filling out a job application- it's totally void of sympathy. It feels cold. - At the top the first section we have is "Persona"- You're expected to pick a persona as if you're just deciding between pepperoni or sausage- not the brother I lost and his personalities. - Then there's the "create New Persona"- With fields like "name, relationship and description". Just feels like an unwanted task, not an opportunity to get closer to speaking with my brother. - Then we have "Memories"- Choose a category! Fill in the filed (required!) - Put in the Weight! and then add memory- This is not the way a person who lost a loved one will want to talk about a past memory- It feels robotic, cold, void of any compassion- feels like a chore. Most people, when wanting to talk about a past memory- why are willing to talk about something so personal? Maybe because it makes them feel a bit better about it being able to release that tightly knit memory- Now imaging having to fill it in here instead like you're filling out a job application or something- It's cold and honestly it feels too troublesome to even bother. I have to choose a category as if I'm selecting what color shirt I want to buy. I have to hand type this memory and it makes me feel like a chore- rather than getting the opportunity to share a memory. Remember that even by doing this, it can be therapeutic- so we have to treat this stuff with much more awareness of what the topic of all this- or who it has to do with- a loved family member that passed away. So I did not even want to bother filling that out- let alone a dozen of them just so that the AI performs better. That sucks. - The journal- Again, I have to "add an entry"- First off it's confusing- why do i have to add a new journal entry? It's not clear enough what this is for and why i should waste my time. Choose a mood! Feels like I'm choosing settings for a video game I'm about to play- not about anything dealing with the loss of a lost one. Tags- come on, really? You want me to put in tags about my brother who is not a blog post. - Chat box area- To have to pick an emotional state or tone mode- Do we do that when we talk to someone? Do we have to decide these things before we can talk? That sucks. That doesn't feel "real"- - In summary: - When I install this app- what I want MORE THAN ANYTHING is to bypass the noise and get to see what engaging in conversation with him is like- how it makes me feel- I don't want to have to fill out this long application before I can get to the only part I'm dying to try. - It almost feels like I'm setting up a profile so that I can meet up with virtual hentiai's or something. Like a digital girlfriend made of AI. This doesn't feel right- the tone is tone-deaf. - Here's what I think I would expect. I'm putting myself in the shoes of someone who was just told by a friend' Hey- have you heard about that app Everspeak? you must download it. After my mom passed away, I installed it and have never looked back. I speak to my mom everyday and it's wonderful. You need this- go download it. - So I go install it all the while I am super excited about seeing what it's like to be able to connect to my brother somehow. I know it's not real- but it will feel real to me and that's just what I need right now in order to heal. - So after the app installs and I hit open (mind you- this feels exciting- the element of the unknown, the fact that I'm moments away from connecting with my brother- _ I'm greeted by the app in one way or another. The app wants to, before anything, express it's condolences. It wants to learn about your loved one- It wants to get to learn them- not because it has to fill in these api points, but because it knows that by asking you about it- that you will feel good inside bringing up their memory, bragging about how incredible they were- and how therapeutic it feels to release this energy. So the onboarding can be a very clever thing actually- It can gather the information it needs (1st of all- to avoid the user having to fill out this long application form). And it can gather it in a way that is compassionate- that friend who wants to console you, but at the same time, asking you questions that are necessary to build the persona we need. So after it's condolences, it will ask in a compassionate way- "Tell me, who was it that you lost? What was their name?" - Boom- you got a first name. Then, you get something like- "What a beautiful name. Tell me, when did you lose (name)? You answer, I lost him 10 years ago. (now you have that data). You respond, I'm so sorry to hear that- I know how hard that could be. I don't mean to overstep my boundaries, but without going into any type of detail, may I ask how you lost (name)? - The user answers- He died of lung cancer, but the last few years were rough. We knew he was fatally ill, etc.... This is great data to ingest. You respond back- thank you for sharing that with me. I will never use this information for no reason other than to connect you to your loved one. (This could be written better- but it's basically an attempt to explain to the user that their information won't be used or shared). Next question- Tell me something you loved about him/her? (right here, as a user, I can already start to feel like this is getting tedious so we have to play this right. Perhaps we can say something like, if you don't feel like typing, just tap the mic icon and tell me about it. I am here for you. - You can see where I'm going with all this- This onboarding is essential. Remember- the user is going to be anxious to get to the meat and potatoes of the app... But all that being said, a user will never turn down an offer to talk about their lost one. You know why especially? Me- as someone who lost my brother- am never asked about him. My wife won't bring it up because she knows it's a touchy subject. My kinds are too scared to even ask me about him because they know it's a touchy subject. To be blunt, I really have no one to talk to about him- like no one, literally- Unless i want to pay a therapist- who is paid to listen to me. So the onboarding is an opportunity not only to collect data, but to "right off the bat" start the therapy session, if you will. - And then after that, the app can say something like- That's beautiful- thank you for sharing that with me. If you ever want to share another memory with me, go to the settings tab/memories and tell me another one. With each memory, your experience gets here with us gets more and more special. - That's another point i wanted to make. We understand that we have to have a lot of safeguards- to be able to control the temperature, to be able to report that the conversation took a sideways turn- but it does not have to be the first thing in the user's face. So long as they are aware of where they should go (and they should all be reachable inside the settings tab somewhere where I think it would make the most sense). Let's not treat this in a robotic fashion. Let's not have dropdown boxes as gateway walls before we can enjoy our conversation with our loved ones. Let's put all that in the settings somewhere so that we are still addressing the potential pitfalls.